AGENT_INSTRUCTIONS.md, before:

# Agent Instructions (Master Plan IT)

These rules exist to prevent drift and avoid “terminal copy/paste chaos”.

## Non‑negotiables
- Do **not** add custom JS/CSS or any frontend build pipeline.
- Keep everything **native Frappe Desk**.
- Keep changes **idempotent** where applicable.
- Never overwrite standard fixtures or export/import standard system records.- **CRITICAL:** Never edit auto-generated JSON files in `doctype/*/` directly — always edit spec files in `spec/`.
## Development workflow (single source of truth)

### Location of source files
- **Specs (metadata):** `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/spec/` ← **EDIT THESE**
- **Python logic:** `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/doctype/*/mpit_*.py` ← **EDIT THESE**
- **Exported JSON:** `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/doctype/*/mpit_*.json` ← **DO NOT EDIT** (auto-generated)

### The correct flow
```
Spec files (spec/) → [sync_all] → Database → [export_to_files] → Exported JSON (doctype/)
```

### Steps to apply changes
1) Edit spec JSON in `spec/doctypes/`, `spec/workflows/`, etc.
2) Edit Python logic in `doctype/*/mpit_*.py` if needed
3) Apply to database:
   ```bash
   bench --site <site> execute master_plan_it.devtools.sync.sync_all
   bench --site <site> migrate
   bench --site <site> clear-cache
   ```
4) Commit both spec files AND auto-generated files to Git
5) For tenant provisioning:
   ```bash
   bench --site <site> execute master_plan_it.devtools.bootstrap.run --kwargs '{"step":"all"}'
   ```

## What to change where

### Always edit these (source of truth)
- **DocType specs:** `master_plan_it/spec/doctypes/*.json`
- **Workflow specs:** `master_plan_it/spec/workflows/*.json`
- **Report specs:** `master_plan_it/spec/reports/*.json`
- **Dashboard specs:** `master_plan_it/spec/dashboards/*.json`, `spec/dashboard_charts/*.json`, `spec/number_cards/*.json`
- **Python logic:** `master_plan_it/master_plan_it/doctype/*/mpit_*.py`
- **Bootstrap scripts:** `master_plan_it/devtools/bootstrap.py`, `verify.py`, `sync.py`
- **Hooks:** `master_plan_it/hooks.py`

### Never edit these (auto-generated)
- **Exported DocTypes:** `master_plan_it/master_plan_it/doctype/*/mpit_*.json` ← Created by sync_all
- **Exported Reports:** `master_plan_it/master_plan_it/report/*/mpit_*.json` ← Created by sync_all
- **Exported Workflows:** `master_plan_it/master_plan_it/workflow/*/mpit_*.json` ← Created by sync_all

## Required outputs for each task
- If you change metadata: ensure `bench migrate` is the apply step and update the relevant docs.
- Add or update an ADR if the change is an architectural decision (multi-tenant model, workflow semantics, immutability rules).
- Provide a `verify()` command/output plan: what should exist in DB after apply.

## Safety checks
- Avoid changing object/module names once created (keeps file paths stable).
- Never export fixtures without filters; ensure only MPIT objects are included.
- If unsure whether an object is “standard sync”: prefer to create it in dev mode via UI and commit its files.

Commit message:

feat: Update environment configuration and remove deprecated scripts
- Added HOST_UID and HOST_GID to example.env for local user permissions.
- Removed fix_amount_field.py script as it is no longer needed.
- Updated README and scripts to replace deprecated sync command with migrate.
- Deleted sync.py script from devtools overlay as it is obsolete.
- Updated smoke tests to check for canonical metadata path instead of DocTypes.
- Removed test_print_formats.py as it is no longer relevant.
- Added new dashboard backup files for Master Plan IT Overview.
- Implemented tests to ensure no forbidden metadata paths exist.
- Added tests to verify translation files and translations for workspace labels.

AGENT_INSTRUCTIONS.md, after:

# Agent Instructions (Master Plan IT)

These rules exist to prevent drift and avoid “terminal copy/paste chaos”.

## Non‑negotiables
- Do **not** add custom JS/CSS or any frontend build pipeline.
- Keep everything **native Frappe Desk**.
- Keep changes **idempotent** where applicable.
- Never overwrite standard fixtures or export/import standard system records.
- Do **not** build or use any custom spec-import / `sync_all` pipeline; stay native.
- Metadata lives only under `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/` — do not create duplicates elsewhere.

## Development workflow (single source of truth)

### Location of source files
- **Metadata (source of truth):** `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/{doctype,report,workflow,dashboard,dashboard_chart,number_card,master_plan_it_dashboard,workspace,print_format}/`
- **Python logic:** `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/doctype/*/mpit_*.py`
- **Spec folder:** `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/spec/` is documentation only; do not import from it.

### The correct flow (native file-first)
1) Edit exported metadata JSON directly in the canonical module folder.
2) If you use Desk for skeleton/non-owned DocTypes, immediately **Export Customizations** back into the canonical path.
3) Edit Python logic alongside metadata as needed.
4) Apply with standard Frappe commands (`bench --site <site> migrate`, `clear-cache`) when required. No custom import pipeline.

### Steps to apply changes
1) Edit metadata JSON under `master_plan_it/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/...` (or export from Desk into that path).
2) Edit Python logic in `doctype/*/mpit_*.py` if needed.
3) Apply to database with standard Frappe commands as needed (`bench --site <site> migrate`, `clear-cache`).
4) Commit the canonical metadata and code.
5) For tenant provisioning:
   ```bash
   bench --site <site> execute master_plan_it.devtools.bootstrap.run --kwargs '{"step":"all"}'
   ```

## What to change where

### Always edit these (source of truth)
- **Metadata JSON:** `master_plan_it/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/{doctype,report,workflow,dashboard,dashboard_chart,number_card,master_plan_it_dashboard,workspace,print_format}/...`
- **Python logic:** `master_plan_it/master_plan_it/doctype/*/mpit_*.py`
- **Bootstrap scripts:** `master_plan_it/devtools/bootstrap.py`, `verify.py`, `sync.py`
- **Hooks:** `master_plan_it/hooks.py`
- **Docs:** `master_plan_it/master_plan_it/spec/` for reference only (no imports)

### Forbidden paths (must not exist)
- `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/doctype/`
- `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/report/`
- `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/workflow/`
- `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/workspace/`
- `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/dashboard/`
- `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/dashboard_chart/`
- `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/number_card/`
- `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/master_plan_it_dashboard/`
- `apps/master_plan_it/master_plan_it/print_format/`

## Required outputs for each task
- If you change metadata: ensure `bench migrate` is the apply step and update the relevant docs.
- Add or update an ADR if the change is an architectural decision (multi-tenant model, workflow semantics, immutability rules).
- Provide a `verify()` command/output plan: what should exist in DB after apply.

## Safety checks
- Avoid changing object/module names once created (keeps file paths stable).
- Never export fixtures without filters; ensure only MPIT objects are included.
- If unsure whether an object is “standard sync”: prefer to create it in dev mode via UI and commit its files.
