## Usage

```
bench new-site [OPTIONS] SITE
```

## Description

Create a new Frappe site. This operation creates a new folder under `./sites`
which will contain all the site information for the site and also creates a new
database in your DBMS with all of Frappe's Modules and DocTypes installed.

The site config, which can be found under `./sites/{site}/site_config.json`
maintains information about the site's state. For more information about it,
checkout this guide.

## Options

* `--db-name` Set the Database name for new site
* `--db-password` Set the Database password for new site
* `--db-type` Select the Database Type for new site, options being "postgres"
  or "mariadb". Default is "mariadb"
* `--db-host` Set Database Host for new site
* `--db-port` Set Database Port for new site
* `--db-root-username` Specify Root username for MariaDB or Postgres
* `--db-root-password` Specify Root password for MariaDB or Postgres
* `--admin-password` Specify the Administrator password for new site
* `--source_sql` Initiate database with a SQL file
* `--install-app` Install app after installation

## Flags

* `--no-mariadb-socket` Set MariaDB host to % and use TCP/IP Socket instead of
  using the UNIX Socket
* `--verbose` Add Verbosity
* `--force` Force restore if the site or a database with the same name already
  exists

## Examples

1. Create a new site.

   ```
   bench new-site {site}
   ```
2. Create a new *PostgreSQL* site.

   ```
   bench new-site {site} --db-type postgres
   ```
3. Create a new site while skipping the interactive prompts for
4. Create a new site with non-default and autogenerated values.

   ```
   bench new-site {site} --db-type {type}
   --db-name {name}
   --db-password {pass}
   --db-host {host}
   --db-port {port}
   ```
5. Create a new site with a MariaDB non-root user with database creation
   priveledges.

   ```
   bench new-site {site}
   --db-root-username {user}
   --db-root-password {pass}
   ```
6. Create a new site with an app *(available on current bench)* installed.

   ```
   bench new-site {site} --install-app {app}
   ```
